docs/index.rst, before:

================
Flask-Reuploaded
================
.. currentmodule:: flask_uploads

Flask-Reuploaded allows your application to flexibly and efficiently handle file
uploading and serving the uploaded files.
You can create different sets of uploads - one for document attachments, one
for photos, etc. - and the application can be configured to save them all in
different places and to generate different URLs for them.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :backlinks: none


Configuration
=============
If you're just deploying an application that uses Flask-Reuploaded, you can
customize its behavior extensively from the application's configuration.
Check the application's documentation or source code to see how it loads its
configuration.

The settings below apply for a single set of uploads, replacing `FILES` with
the name of the set (i.e. `PHOTOS`, `ATTACHMENTS`):

`UPLOADED_FILES_DEST`
    This indicates the directory uploaded files will be saved to.

`UPLOADED_FILES_URL`
    If you have a server set up to serve the files in this set, this should be
    the URL they are publicly accessible from. Include the trailing slash.

`UPLOADED_FILES_ALLOW`
    This lets you allow file extensions not allowed by the upload set in the
    code.

`UPLOADED_FILES_DENY`
    This lets you deny file extensions allowed by the upload set in the code.

To save on configuration time, there are two settings you can provide
that apply as "defaults" if you don't provide the proper settings otherwise.

`UPLOADS_DEFAULT_DEST`
    If you set this, then if an upload set's destination isn't otherwise
    declared, then its uploads will be stored in a subdirectory of this
    directory. For example, if you set this to ``/var/uploads``, then a set
    named photos will store its uploads in ``/var/uploads/photos``.

`UPLOADS_DEFAULT_URL`
    If you have a server set up to serve from `UPLOADS_DEFAULT_DEST`, then
    set the server's base URL here. Continuing the example above, if
    ``/var/uploads`` is accessible from ``http://localhost:5001``, then you
    would set this to ``http://localhost:5001/`` and URLs for the photos set
    would start with ``http://localhost:5001/photos``. Include the trailing
    slash.

However, you don't have to set any of the ``_URL`` settings - if you don't,
then they will be served internally by Flask. They are just there so if you
have heavy upload traffic, you can have a faster production server like Nginx
serve the uploads.

Since Flask 0.6 you can set `MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` to
limit the size of uploaded files.


Upload Sets
===========
An "upload set" is a single collection of files. You just declare them in the
code::

    photos = UploadSet('photos', IMAGES)

And then you can use the `~UploadSet.save` method to save uploaded files and
`~UploadSet.path` and `~UploadSet.url` to access them. For example::

    @app.route('/upload', methods=['GET', 'POST'])
    def upload():
        if request.method == 'POST' and 'photo' in request.files:
            filename = photos.save(request.files['photo'])
            rec = Photo(filename=filename, user=g.user.id)
            rec.store()
            flash("Photo saved.")
            return redirect(url_for('show', id=rec.id))
        return render_template('upload.html')
    
    @app.route('/photo/<id>')
    def show(id):
        photo = Photo.load(id)
        if photo is None:
            abort(404)
        url = photos.url(photo.filename)
        return render_template('show.html', url=url, photo=photo)

If you have a "default location" for storing uploads - for example, if your
app has an "instance" directory and uploads should be saved to
the instance directory's ``uploads`` folder - you can pass a ``default_dest``
callable to the set constructor. It takes the application as its argument.
For example::

    media = UploadSet('media', default_dest=lambda app: app.instance_path)

This won't prevent a different destination from being set in the config,
though. It's just to save your users a little configuration time.


App Configuration
=================
An upload set's configuration is stored on an app. That way, you can have
upload sets being used by multiple apps at once. You use the
`configure_uploads` function to load the configuration for the upload sets.
You pass in the app and all of the upload sets you want configured. Calling
`configure_uploads` more than once is safe. ::

    configure_uploads(app, (photos, media))

If your app has a factory function, that is a good place to call this
function.

By default, though, Flask doesn't put any limits on the size of the uploaded
data. To protect your application, you can use `patch_request_class`. If you
call it with `None` as the second parameter, it will use the
`MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` setting to determine how large the upload can be. ::

    patch_request_class(app, None)

You can also call it with a number to set an absolute limit, but that only
exists for backwards compatibility reasons and is not recommended for
production use. In addition, it's not necessary for Flask 0.6 or greater, so
if your application is only intended to run on Flask 0.6, you don't need it.


File Upload Forms
=================
To actually upload the files, you need to properly set up your form. A form
that uploads files needs to have its method set to POST and its enctype
set to ``multipart/form-data``. If it's set to GET, it won't work at all, and
if you don't set the enctype, only the filename will be transferred.

The field itself should be an ``<input type=file>``.

.. code-block:: html+jinja

    <form method=POST enctype=multipart/form-data action="{{ url_for('upload') }}">
        ...
        <input type=file name=photo>
        ...
    </form>


API Documentation
=================
This documentation is generated directly from the source code.


Upload Sets
-----------
.. autoclass:: UploadSet
   :members:

.. autoclass:: UploadConfiguration


Application Setup
-----------------
.. autofunction:: configure_uploads

.. autofunction:: patch_request_class


Extension Constants
-------------------
These are some default sets of extensions you can pass to the `UploadSet`
constructor.

.. autoclass:: AllExcept

.. autodata:: DEFAULTS

.. autodata:: ALL

.. autodata:: TEXT

.. autodata:: IMAGES

.. autodata:: AUDIO

.. autodata:: DOCUMENTS

.. autodata:: DATA

.. autodata:: SCRIPTS

.. autodata:: ARCHIVES

.. autodata:: EXECUTABLES


Testing Utilities
-----------------
.. autoclass:: TestingFileStorage


Backwards Compatibility
=======================
Version 0.1.3
-------------
* The `_uploads` module/blueprint will not be registered if it is not needed
  to serve uploads.


Version 0.1.1
-------------
* `patch_request_class` now changes `max_content_length` instead of
  `max_form_memory_size`.

Commit message:

Deprecate `patch_request_class`
... and move it out of the main module.

This function was only necessary in the pre-Flask 0.6 time.

This fixes #43

modified:   docs/index.rst
modified:   src/flask_uploads/__init__.py
new file:   src/flask_uploads/backwards_compatibility.py
modified:   src/flask_uploads/flask_uploads.py
modified:   CHANGES.rst

docs/index.rst, after:

================
Flask-Reuploaded
================
.. currentmodule:: flask_uploads

Flask-Reuploaded allows your application to flexibly and efficiently handle file
uploading and serving the uploaded files.
You can create different sets of uploads - one for document attachments, one
for photos, etc. - and the application can be configured to save them all in
different places and to generate different URLs for them.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :backlinks: none


Configuration
=============
If you're just deploying an application that uses Flask-Reuploaded, you can
customize its behavior extensively from the application's configuration.
Check the application's documentation or source code to see how it loads its
configuration.

The settings below apply for a single set of uploads, replacing `FILES` with
the name of the set (i.e. `PHOTOS`, `ATTACHMENTS`):

`UPLOADED_FILES_DEST`
    This indicates the directory uploaded files will be saved to.

`UPLOADED_FILES_URL`
    If you have a server set up to serve the files in this set, this should be
    the URL they are publicly accessible from. Include the trailing slash.

`UPLOADED_FILES_ALLOW`
    This lets you allow file extensions not allowed by the upload set in the
    code.

`UPLOADED_FILES_DENY`
    This lets you deny file extensions allowed by the upload set in the code.

To save on configuration time, there are two settings you can provide
that apply as "defaults" if you don't provide the proper settings otherwise.

`UPLOADS_DEFAULT_DEST`
    If you set this, then if an upload set's destination isn't otherwise
    declared, then its uploads will be stored in a subdirectory of this
    directory. For example, if you set this to ``/var/uploads``, then a set
    named photos will store its uploads in ``/var/uploads/photos``.

`UPLOADS_DEFAULT_URL`
    If you have a server set up to serve from `UPLOADS_DEFAULT_DEST`, then
    set the server's base URL here. Continuing the example above, if
    ``/var/uploads`` is accessible from ``http://localhost:5001``, then you
    would set this to ``http://localhost:5001/`` and URLs for the photos set
    would start with ``http://localhost:5001/photos``. Include the trailing
    slash.

However, you don't have to set any of the ``_URL`` settings - if you don't,
then they will be served internally by Flask. They are just there so if you
have heavy upload traffic, you can have a faster production server like Nginx
serve the uploads.

By default Flask doesn't put any limits on the size of the uploaded
data. To limit the max upload size, you can use Flask's `MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH`.


Upload Sets
===========
An "upload set" is a single collection of files. You just declare them in the
code::

    photos = UploadSet('photos', IMAGES)

And then you can use the `~UploadSet.save` method to save uploaded files and
`~UploadSet.path` and `~UploadSet.url` to access them. For example::

    @app.route('/upload', methods=['GET', 'POST'])
    def upload():
        if request.method == 'POST' and 'photo' in request.files:
            filename = photos.save(request.files['photo'])
            rec = Photo(filename=filename, user=g.user.id)
            rec.store()
            flash("Photo saved.")
            return redirect(url_for('show', id=rec.id))
        return render_template('upload.html')
    
    @app.route('/photo/<id>')
    def show(id):
        photo = Photo.load(id)
        if photo is None:
            abort(404)
        url = photos.url(photo.filename)
        return render_template('show.html', url=url, photo=photo)

If you have a "default location" for storing uploads - for example, if your
app has an "instance" directory and uploads should be saved to
the instance directory's ``uploads`` folder - you can pass a ``default_dest``
callable to the set constructor. It takes the application as its argument.
For example::

    media = UploadSet('media', default_dest=lambda app: app.instance_path)

This won't prevent a different destination from being set in the config,
though. It's just to save your users a little configuration time.


App Configuration
=================
An upload set's configuration is stored on an app. That way, you can have
upload sets being used by multiple apps at once. You use the
`configure_uploads` function to load the configuration for the upload sets.
You pass in the app and all of the upload sets you want configured. Calling
`configure_uploads` more than once is safe. ::

    configure_uploads(app, (photos, media))

If your app has a factory function, that is a good place to call this
function.


File Upload Forms
=================
To actually upload the files, you need to properly set up your form. A form
that uploads files needs to have its method set to POST and its enctype
set to ``multipart/form-data``. If it's set to GET, it won't work at all, and
if you don't set the enctype, only the filename will be transferred.

The field itself should be an ``<input type=file>``.

.. code-block:: html+jinja

    <form method=POST enctype=multipart/form-data action="{{ url_for('upload') }}">
        ...
        <input type=file name=photo>
        ...
    </form>


API Documentation
=================
This documentation is generated directly from the source code.


Upload Sets
-----------
.. autoclass:: UploadSet
   :members:

.. autoclass:: UploadConfiguration


Application Setup
-----------------
.. autofunction:: configure_uploads

.. autofunction:: patch_request_class


Extension Constants
-------------------
These are some default sets of extensions you can pass to the `UploadSet`
constructor.

.. autoclass:: AllExcept

.. autodata:: DEFAULTS

.. autodata:: ALL

.. autodata:: TEXT

.. autodata:: IMAGES

.. autodata:: AUDIO

.. autodata:: DOCUMENTS

.. autodata:: DATA

.. autodata:: SCRIPTS

.. autodata:: ARCHIVES

.. autodata:: EXECUTABLES


Testing Utilities
-----------------
.. autoclass:: TestingFileStorage


Backwards Compatibility
=======================

Version 1.0 (unreleased)
------------------------
* Removal of `patch_request_class`


Version 0.1.3
-------------
* The `_uploads` module/blueprint will not be registered if it is not needed
  to serve uploads.


Version 0.1.1
-------------
* `patch_request_class` now changes `max_content_length` instead of
  `max_form_memory_size`.
